# A Plan to Fight Terrorism : Request for Comments

This doc based on a discussion that started here http://www.dailykos.com/story/2017/6/3/1668689/-We-have-to-have-a-plan-to-fight-terrorism and at http://civ.works

- **Stand on principles of human rights.**  Make our moral leadership clear.  Stand up for anyone being abused by daesh, including those in the middle east.  Also stand up for those abused by authoritarian regimes.  This is mainly a matter of speaking out, and making aid contingent on respect for human rights.  I don’t care for Reagan but one decent thing he did, according to Kasparov’s book he would start any meeting with his Russian counterparts by throwing on the table a list of political prisoners.  

- **Show strength.** Military solutions are not enough, but they are necessary.  We need to show strength and resolve when we act.  Target leaders and allow our military to act strongly in a tightly targeted manner.

- **Provide Hope.** Increase support for schools, jobs, tie aid to providing schooling for girls and all people in the population.  America does provide a huge amount of military and other assistance in the region, we should be using all the leverage we can to improve the situation for regular people.  We should have engaged far more with the Arab Spring, but we should engage now with any movements for democracy in the the Arab world.  Leverage our influence to increase freedom under authoritarian regimes and avoid providing arms to strengthen them.

- **Treat it as a Disease.** Many terrorists (Islamist or white supremacist) had previous minor convictions and mental health problems.  We can’t screen everyone, but any time an anti-social act happens, we should be providing mental health screening and treatment along with the penalty.  Mental health professionals should be trained in warning signs and research should be done on effective methods of deradicalization (maybe similar to cult removals?).  Often family or friends tried to raise a warning, if the person of interest commits any minor crime and there are warning signs aggressive intervention may help.  Jeremy Christian, the white supremacist terrorist who killed Ricky Best and Namkai Meche on the bus, ‘practically grew up in prison’.  Many people in prisons have a huge need for mental health treatment, that would save lives.

- **Win the technical and propaganda wars.**  According to this Al Quaeda recruiter, the anti-isis videos are not being created on the same level as the extremely sophisticated recruitment videos.  Get comedians and other entertainers to debunk the daesh message, or get those who have left to help, but do this more effectively.  Also as Hilary said, take down the websites that recruit. http://www.cnn.com/2015/12/18/health/al-quaeda-recruiter-fight-isis-online/

- **Stop the Hate.**  Expand the use of “incitement” laws and RICO to go after the preachers who preach this hateful ideology under circumstances where it is likely that their commands to murder “are intended and likely to be followed.”  I emphasize that the quoted language must be essential to the test.  

- **Vigorously enforce the law everywhere.**  According to some accounts, police are not vigorously enforcing laws such as those against domestic violence within tight-knit fundamentalist communities.  Ensure that community policing and relationship building with all members of the community happens in all communities in a jurisdiction.  (citation needed)

- **Follow the Money.**  Track the funding for terrorist actions, and if it leads back for example to Saudi Arabia, take strong action as a result.

- **Do Not Add Weapons.**  Selling arms to authoritarian or corrupt regimes will add fuel to the fire.  Keep control over weaponry under democratic and transparent governments as much as possible, and vigorously pursue any abuses by those with superior weapons.  This may not be an absolute - there may be times we want to arm rebels, or armies, but generally this should be associated with legitimate government.  If it is widely known this is our policy, and we stick to it, it could change the dynamic.

- **Truth and Reconciliation.** For past wounds and conflicts that keep causing wars, invest in processes of 'truth and reconciliation' to bring to light injustices and have people come forward.  Democratic nations should take the lead on this rather than pointing fingers, and set an example of having open councils or panels to deal with accusations of abuse.  All nations should be asked to participate but those that claim to be truly democratic and open (and thus get trade benefits and access to weapons) should accept the responsibility for dealing with accusations in an open way.
